docs/platforms/mac/child-process.md, before:

---
summary: "Gateway lifecycle on macOS (launchd + attach-only)"
read_when:
  - Integrating the mac app with the gateway lifecycle
---
# Gateway lifecycle on macOS

The macOS app **manages the Gateway via launchd** by default. This gives you
reliable auto‑start at login and restart on crashes.

Child‑process mode (Gateway spawned directly by the app) is **not in use** today.
If you need tighter coupling to the UI, use **Attach‑only** and run the Gateway
manually in a terminal.

## Default behavior (launchd)

- The app installs a per‑user LaunchAgent labeled `com.clawdbot.gateway`
  (or `com.clawdbot.<profile>` when using `--profile`/`CLAWDBOT_PROFILE`).
- When Local mode is enabled, the app ensures the LaunchAgent is loaded and
  starts the Gateway if needed.
- Logs are written to the launchd gateway log path (visible in Debug Settings).

Common commands:

```bash
launchctl kickstart -k gui/$UID/com.clawdbot.gateway
launchctl bootout gui/$UID/com.clawdbot.gateway
```

Replace the label with `com.clawdbot.<profile>` when running a named profile.

## Attach‑only (developer mode)

Attach‑only tells the app to **connect to an existing Gateway** without spawning
one. This is ideal for local dev (hot‑reload, custom flags).

Steps:

1) Start the Gateway yourself:
   ```bash
   pnpm gateway:watch
   ```
2) In the macOS app: Debug Settings → Gateway → **Attach only**.

The UI should show “Using existing gateway …” once connected.

## Remote mode

Remote mode never starts a local Gateway. The app uses an SSH tunnel to the
remote host and connects over that tunnel.

## Why we prefer launchd

- Auto‑start at login.
- Built‑in restart/KeepAlive semantics.
- Predictable logs and supervision.

If a true child‑process mode is ever needed again, it should be documented as a
separate, explicit dev‑only mode.

Commit message:

fix: reset unsigned launchd overrides (#695) (thanks @jeffersonwarrior)

docs/platforms/mac/child-process.md, after:

---
summary: "Gateway lifecycle on macOS (launchd + attach-only)"
read_when:
  - Integrating the mac app with the gateway lifecycle
---
# Gateway lifecycle on macOS

The macOS app **manages the Gateway via launchd** by default. This gives you
reliable auto‑start at login and restart on crashes.

Child‑process mode (Gateway spawned directly by the app) is **not in use** today.
If you need tighter coupling to the UI, use **Attach‑only** and run the Gateway
manually in a terminal.

## Default behavior (launchd)

- The app installs a per‑user LaunchAgent labeled `com.clawdbot.gateway`
  (or `com.clawdbot.<profile>` when using `--profile`/`CLAWDBOT_PROFILE`).
- When Local mode is enabled, the app ensures the LaunchAgent is loaded and
  starts the Gateway if needed.
- Logs are written to the launchd gateway log path (visible in Debug Settings).

Common commands:

```bash
launchctl kickstart -k gui/$UID/com.clawdbot.gateway
launchctl bootout gui/$UID/com.clawdbot.gateway
```

Replace the label with `com.clawdbot.<profile>` when running a named profile.

## Attach‑only (developer mode)

Attach‑only tells the app to **connect to an existing Gateway** without spawning
one. This is ideal for local dev (hot‑reload, custom flags).

Steps:

1) Start the Gateway yourself:
   ```bash
   pnpm gateway:watch
   ```
2) In the macOS app: Debug Settings → Gateway → **Attach only**.

The UI should show “Using existing gateway …” once connected.

## Unsigned dev builds

`scripts/restart-mac.sh --no-sign` is for fast local builds when you don’t have
signing keys. To prevent launchd from pointing at an unsigned relay binary, it:

- Writes `~/.clawdbot/disable-launchagent`.
- Sets `clawdbot.gateway.attachExistingOnly=true` in the macOS app defaults.

Signed runs of `scripts/restart-mac.sh` clear these overrides if the marker is
present. To reset manually:

```bash
rm ~/.clawdbot/disable-launchagent
defaults write com.clawdbot.mac clawdbot.gateway.attachExistingOnly -bool NO
```

## Remote mode

Remote mode never starts a local Gateway. The app uses an SSH tunnel to the
remote host and connects over that tunnel.

## Why we prefer launchd

- Auto‑start at login.
- Built‑in restart/KeepAlive semantics.
- Predictable logs and supervision.

If a true child‑process mode is ever needed again, it should be documented as a
separate, explicit dev‑only mode.
